Sprint Three
Build a secure search engine using Node.js with data that is stored in both PostgreSQL
and MongoDB, as well as a Tree building webservice using express.
Introduction and Summary
Hello all, and welcome to the final sprint for this semester. There will be two projects in this sprint, the
first one, you may complete in a group of up to three people, the second one, you must complete on
your own. For the first project, your goal will be to make a search engine website that a user can send
arbitrary search terms to and get back some results. For the second project, we’ll want to create a web
service that accepts an array of numbers, and gives us back a JSON tree representation of those
numbers. The steps for each project will first be summarized into easily digestible chunks in the sections
that follow, this document will then go into details on each step to elaborate on the project
requirements. Please do read the entire summary for each project carefully to get an idea of the scope
of the project and the core requirements before continuing into the implementation details. Note that
at the end of this document, a competition element involving some prize money will be elaborated on as
well.
Project One
This project can be completed in a group of up to three. Again, the basic idea of this project is that we’re
going to create a search engine using mock data that you generate by any means. You’ll need to use
both postgres and mongodb to store your data (you can either split it between them, or have redundant
data in each, it doesn’t matter). You should generate a website that a user can easily use to access the
search service that you’ve build, this does not have to be a complex effort, but do note that the
completeness of this website, as well as the usability, will be factored into the competition element
discussed at the end of this document. To begin, we briefly outline the project in summarized steps:


Step 1. Choose a subject area for your search engine.
Step 2. Find a mock data generator and generate 1000 rows of data for your chosen subject;
https://www.softwaretestinghelp.com/test-data-generation-tools/
Step 3. Build both PostgreSQL and MongoDB data storage for the mock data generated.
Reminder, mock data generators can export to either SQL or JSON (or both).
Step 4. Build Node.js objects to query and display the search results. The user should be able 
choose their data source(s); postgres, mongo, or both. Before they execute their search.
Step 5. Implement security features to signup and login before any search can be executed.
(use passport.js or similar if you like)
Step 6. Results should be displayed to page, similar to google search results.
Step 7. Each requested query keywords should be saved to a log in either postgres, mongo, or
both (you choose). These keywords should be save with datetime stamp and user_id.
Bonus. Use automated unit testing to test your code where possible.
Bonus. Ensure your code is structured to deny any kind of query injection hack.
https://severalnines.com/database-blog/securing-mongodb-external-injection-attacks
https://blog.crunchydata.com/blog/preventing-sql-injection-attacks-in-postgresql
The first step in the process is to mock some data, in order to do that, it’s a good idea to have some idea of
the type of search engine you’d like to create, but in reality, when I was implementing the canonical
solution for this project during the design phase, I actually looked at what types of mock data was
available, and then chose a subject based on that. In terms of mocking data, there are many services out
there that are suitable, one service that I know will work well for this project is
https://www.mockaroo.com/ but I encourage you to explore alternatives to your heart’s content. When
I was looking at mockaroo, I noticed that one of the things they could generate was short and long
descriptions of medical procedures, as well as fictional procedure numbers, and so I decided I’d make a
medical procedure search engine based on this mock data. However, you feel free to use whatever mock
data you’d like, on any topic that you’d like, again, for the competition element, aesthetics and creativity
will be factored in, so feel free to get as a creative as you’d like. For example, on mockaroo alone, other
possibilities included a database of animal information, or car information, or numerous other things, so
there are plenty of options out there. In fact, you can even use real data for added utility if you’d like, as
long, of course, as it is legal for you to obtain it and use it in an educational context.
In any case, once you’ve decided on your search engine topic, and you’ve generated 1000 rows worth of
entries for your databases from your desired mocking service or services of choice, we now need to get
into the core implementation. So, to accomplish the next step, which would be step 3, you’re going to
need to add your data to your databases. Services like mockaroo make this relatively easy to do - they can
generate data as SQL insert statements, which obviously make it quite easy to insert data into Postgres,
for example. If your mocking service does not allow this, you may have to write a script that takes the
data in the= format that you get it in, and translates it into an appropriate insert query, perhaps using the pg
node module, or just string manipulation written out to a file for you to bulk-insert using pgAdmin. For
mongodb, the process is similar. Again, mockaroo can generate JSON files, so when I implemented my
solution for this, that’s what I did (mockaroo helpfully has an option to generate the file as an array of
objects, which is perfect for mongodb). Once you have this data, you have a few options for inserting it
into the database, you can of course use MongoDB’s Compass utility (roughly the equivalent of
pgAdmin), which actually has an “add data” button in it, that accepts a JSON file as input, and will
automatically add it to the collection of your choice. Alternatively, you can do it from the mongodb shell
by using the insertMany method and pasting the entire file contents as the parameter to that query, for
example. Again, if your mocking service doesn’t offer a mongodb friendly format, you’d want to create a
script that either translated your data into an acceptable mongodb query that you could run from the shell,
or simply one that used the mongodb module in node to insert the data in an appropriate format
programmatically.
Okay, so now we have our data in our databases, it’s time to start implementing some code to complete
step 4. So, we actually need to implement a few webpages to accomplish this. Firstly, we know, from the
summary, that we’re going to need to create a login system and account system somehow, so we may as 

well plan for that. From a user experience perspective, it makes sense to have a home page to help them
navigate around, a place to help them find the login page, the sign up page, and critically, the search page.
To actually implement the search, we’re going to need two pages. The first one is the “query page” – this
is like the google homepage for us, with the search bar on it. On this page, the user can type a string that
they’d like to search one or both of our databases for, and it should have a submit button so that they can
complete their search. Once the submit button is pressed, we should have a second page for the search
results, again, this would be like the google results page, which, in the case of google, would have useful
links to websites, but for us instead will just have rows containing the relevant entries from our database.
I’ve included two screenshots of a simple implementation of this idea below, with the query page as
figure 1 and the results page as figure 2.
Once you have a client-side completed, you’ll be able to test your backend implementation. To implement
the backend, you’ll want to use express as a base since we’re going to be adding a login system among
other things. We’ll have to implement several routes; you’ll want routes for each of your client pages, and
you’ll also want routes to service the requests from those pages (for example, the login service will
probably have a ‘get’ route that gives the user access to the html page with the login forum, and a ‘post’
route which services a post request from the html page to log the user in on the back-end). Note that for
your login system, you can choose one database or the other to store your user accounts in, you don’t
need to use both. In my solution I used passport to implement this system, with postgres to store my user
data, if you want a refresher on how that might work, you should check out the video of the tutorial I gave
on Friday, it covers this type of approach in a fair amount of depth. For your search routes, my
recommendation is to use nunjucks templates to put the results from your database(s) onto the page, refer
to figure 2 to see what the output of that might look like, and again, refer to the Friday tutorial video for a
refresher on how nunjucks works. In terms of actually generating data to inject into those templates,
you’ll need to query your databases for this. In my implementation of this system, my search route took
two parameters, a query, and a database, both of these come straight from my forum as you can see in
figure 1 above. The database parameter of this request has a value of either “postgres” to search only
postgres, “mongodb” to search only mongodb, or “both” to search both. The query parameter of the
request is simply a string that the user provides, and we want to find out if any fields of any entries in our
database(s) have any part of a string that matches the provided query. To do this in SQL, I’ll give you a
hint that you can use the “like” operator (https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_like.asp). For mongodb,
you can use a regular expression with the find command – thankfully not a complicated regular
expression, if you use a regular expression that has just the query string inside of it, and nothing else, that
is actually the same as using the “like” operator in SQL, which is convenient for us, since we haven’t
studied regular expressions in depth. In node, you can turn any string into a regular expression like this:
const some_string = “pretend_i_am_a_query”;
const regular_expression_version = new RegExp(some_string);
If we want it to search in a case-insensitive way, we can do:
const regular_expression_version = new RegExp(some_string, ‘i');
Okay, now that we have a good handle on the backend implementation, there are only a few final details
to talk about. Firstly, we need to keep a log of every query that a user sends, in my example
implementation I saved records for this to both databases, but you can choose one or the other – we’ll
want to run these insertions on our database(s) every time the user sends a search query, so we’ll want to
make sure that’s in our code for that route. In addition, we need to make sure that the user cannot access 

the search functionality of our website unless they are logged in, so we’ll need to check for that in the
relevant routes. Finally, for the first bonus, if there is an opportunity to break some logic out into a
testable, reusable function, that is a good candidate for unit-testing with Jest. For the second bonus, we’ll
want to ensure that our database is robust against any query injection attacks. SQL injection is fairly
common, so test your website using a couple of well-known attacks to make sure you’re not vulnerable to
it: https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_injection.asp
Likewise, mongodb also has query injection vulnerabilities:
https://blog.sqreen.com/mongodb-will-not-prevent-nosql-injections-in-your-node-js-app/
Honestly, for this project, the security aspect isn’t as important, and it is only a bonus, but it is something
that we should be aware of when we take on real projects. SQL injection, in particular, is one of the first
things people will try on public websites, so it’s important that we’re at least aware of it as a threat – with
query injection, people can take full control of our database, and sometimes even full control of our entire
server, which is obviously not good.